Sample preparation1.Use scissors to remove any non-textile parts and to cut the textile into square pieces of approximately 5x5 mm2. For blank samples containing no textile sample, directly start at step 4.2.Manually mix the textile square pieces to obtain a homogeneous sample.3.Weigh out 200 ± 10 mg of the sample in a weighing boat, note the weight and transfer it into the iPrep vessels ensuring that all pieces remain at the bottom of the vessel. Otherwise, gently tick on the tube.Charring step4.Add 6 mL of concentrated H2SO4 to the iPrep vessels using a pipette. Ensure that all the sample pieces are in contact with the acid.5.Leave the sample to pre-digest for 15 minutes with the cap covering the tube to avoid contamination but untightened in order to allow overpressure release.6.Close the iPrep vessel and insert it into the microwave oven with a limit of 4 samples per run. All the samples should be of similar material for safety reasons. It is recommended that blanks (no textile) and samples are not digested in the same run.7.Heat the samples up to 260 °C using a single 30 minutes stage “ramp-to-temperature” option with 900W power max and 100% power. Hold for 5 minutes at this temperature. Thereafter, allow to cool down below 60 °C.Digestion step8.Once tube temperature is below 60 °C, carefully open the vessel under fume-hood and gently add 10 mL of HNO3 using a pipette.9.Leave the sample to pre-digest for 30 minutes under fume-hood with the cap covering the tube to avoid contamination but untightened in order to allow pressure evacuation.10. Close the iPrep vessel and insert it into the microwave oven.11. Heat the samples up to 200 °C using a single 30 minutes stage “ramp-to-temperature” option with 900W power max and 100% power. Hold for 10 minutes at this temperature. Thereafter, allow to cool down below 60 °C.Conditioning12. Carefully open the vessel under the fume-hood to evacuate toxic fumes. Pour the liquid into a 50 ml Sarstedt vessel.13. Rinse the iPrep vessel with a few mL of DI water and carefully add the rinsing waters into the Sarstedt vessel. Repeat two more times.14. Add DI water to the Sarstedt vessel up to the 50 mL volume mark and manually agitate the sample to homogenize the solution.15. Diluted samples are refrigerated until analysis by ICP-OES or ICP-MS.